README.md, before:

# Tools.WSLGestion

This module makes it easy to add and remove instances of WSL via PowerShell commands.

## Installation

You can place the module on you're Module repository. By default, it's `C:\Users\CHANGE_ME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules`, but it can be different.

You can now import the module with the following command :

```powershell
Import-Mdule Tools.WSLGestion -Force
```

> Noted that it is best to use the `-Force` to ensure that any older versions are overwritten.

The module commands are now visible in the PowerShell console.

## Utilisation

You can create a new WSL instance with the command `New-WSL` :

```powershell
New-WSL -Name "My-WSL-Instance" -DistroPath ".\ubuntu-jammy-wsl-amd64-wsl.rootfs.tar.gz" -VhdDestinationFolder ".\Test-module\" -Username "bob"
```

| Parameter            | Description                                     |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Name                 | Name of the new WSL instance                    |
| DistroPath           | Path to the distro archive                      |
| VhdDestinationFolder | Path to the folder where the VHD will be stored |
| Username             | Username of the default user                    |

You can remove a WSL instance with the command `Remove-WSL` :

```powershell
Remove-WSL -Name "My-WSL-Instance"
```

## Other informations

## Default User

By default, root is the only user available on a new WSL instance.

You need to create a new user with the command `adduser` if you want to use a specific user.

To automatically connect to a user when you start a WSL instance, you can use the config file `/etc/wsl.conf`.

You just need to add the following lines to the file :

```conf
[user]
default=CHANGE_ME
```

A very great documentation from microsoft on the subject : [Advanced settings configuration in WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config)

The module use this method to automatically connect to the user you specify on the parameter `DefaultUser` when you create a new instance.

### Distro

WSL use specific distro version to initiate new instance. So, you need to specify the `.tar.gz` or `.tar` archive that contains the distro image.

Consider to use official WSL images

For example, you can find some Ubuntu image for WSL at the link below :
[WSL Ubuntu image](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/wsl/)

Most distros are available through the Microsoft Store for direct installations. So, it will probably take some research to find them in the archive format.

### Virtual Disk (VHD)

WSL create and use VHD disk to store data of each instance.

A WSL instance is simply a specific virtual machine that starts very quickly.

By default, VHD are store at `C:\Users\CHANGE_ME\AppData\Local\Packages\YOU_DISTRO_NAME\LocalState`.

When tou create an instance with the module, the vhd file is store on the folder specify on the parameter `VhdDestinationFolder`

Here is a great documentation from microsoft on the subject : [How to manage WSL disk space](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/disk-space)

Commit message:

Add section for WSL configuration file usage

README.md, after:

# Tools.WSLGestion

This module makes it easy to add and remove instances of WSL via PowerShell commands.

## Installation

You can place the module on you're Module repository. By default, it's `C:\Users\CHANGE_ME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules`, but it can be different.

You can now import the module with the following command :

```powershell
Import-Mdule Tools.WSLGestion -Force
```

> Noted that it is best to use the `-Force` to ensure that any older versions are overwritten.

The module commands are now visible in the PowerShell console.

## Utilisation

### Basics

You can create a new WSL instance with the command `New-WSL` :

```powershell
New-WSL -Name "My-WSL-Instance" -DistroPath ".\ubuntu-jammy-wsl-amd64-wsl.rootfs.tar.gz" -VhdDestinationFolder ".\Test-module\" -Username "bob"
```

| Parameter            | Description                                     |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Name                 | Name of the new WSL instance                    |
| DistroPath           | Path to the distro archive                      |
| VhdDestinationFolder | Path to the folder where the VHD will be stored |
| Username             | Username of the default user                    |

You can remove a WSL instance with the command `Remove-WSL` :

```powershell
Remove-WSL -Name "My-WSL-Instance"
```

### With the configuration file

You can use the command `New-WSL` with only few parameters if you have a configuration file. The mandatory parameters that the module needs will be automatically retrieve from the configuration file.

Parameters `DistroPath`, `VhdDestinationFolder` and `Username` are not mandatory if you have set them in the configuration file.

```powershell
New-WSL -Name "My-WSL-Instance"
```

You can print the file content with the function `Show-WSLConfig`.

The file is store on the folder `.\config\` of the module. You can edit the content here or use the function `Edit-WSLConfig`.

```powershell
Edit-WSLConfig -DistrosPath ".\my\distro.tar.gz" -VhdDestinationFolder ".\vhd\" -Username "bob"
```

> Note that you can only spécify the parameters that you want to change. The others will not be modified.

## Other informations

## Default User

By default, root is the only user available on a new WSL instance.

You need to create a new user with the command `adduser` if you want to use a specific user.

To automatically connect to a user when you start a WSL instance, you can use the config file `/etc/wsl.conf`.

You just need to add the following lines to the file :

```conf
[user]
default=CHANGE_ME
```

A very great documentation from microsoft on the subject : [Advanced settings configuration in WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config)

The module use this method to automatically connect to the user you specify on the parameter `DefaultUser` when you create a new instance.

### Distro

WSL use specific distro version to initiate new instance. So, you need to specify the `.tar.gz` or `.tar` archive that contains the distro image.

Consider to use official WSL images

For example, you can find some Ubuntu image for WSL at the link below :
[WSL Ubuntu image](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/wsl/)

Most distros are available through the Microsoft Store for direct installations. So, it will probably take some research to find them in the archive format.

### Virtual Disk (VHD)

WSL create and use VHD disk to store data of each instance.

A WSL instance is simply a specific virtual machine that starts very quickly.

By default, VHD are store at `C:\Users\CHANGE_ME\AppData\Local\Packages\YOU_DISTRO_NAME\LocalState`.

When tou create an instance with the module, the vhd file is store on the folder specify on the parameter `VhdDestinationFolder`

Here is a great documentation from microsoft on the subject : [How to manage WSL disk space](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/disk-space)
